Welcome back in our last lesson.
We just created our sign out saga.
We also created our sign up methods so that we're able to properly catch and check whether or not our
sign up is successful and then log an error if it is otherwise we put out this new method of sign up
success.
Now what we want to do in this lesson is we want to have our cart clear out anything that it's got inside
of it's reducer.
When the user signs out successfully and there's two main methods that we can do to actually execute
this the first one is inside of our cart reducer.
We can make a new case where we listen for user action types dot sign of success and then we clear out
the car items here that's perfectly valid because we know our reducer is all get every single action
that ever fires inside of our application.
The thing however though is if we think about this functionality that we're trying to build is there
ever a chance where we're going to want to reduce the ability to clear out our cart.
Well it turns out that there actually might be we might want to at some point perhaps allow the user
to click something inside of the cart itself that allows them to empty it out entirely essentially resetting
the entire cart.
Again this is just the functionality that seems like it's very useful to have inside of its own reusable
function.
So let's actually do it.
And it's also good practice for us to just keep writing more sagas as well as updating our redux files
to accommodate this new feature.
Now what we're going to do is we are going to make a new cart type and a new cart action as well as
a new cart saga.
So first let's start with a type let's make a new type called Clear cart and what clear cart does is
it will do exactly as it sets.
We're going to create a new action called Clear cart
and this will just create the action type of cart action types dot clear cart
now that we have this we need to make sure that we dispatch clear cart from our saga.
Right.
When we hear that user action sign of success so let's make our new heart sagas folder.
And as you remember because we're making a new saga file we're gonna have to bring this into our root
sagas as well as creating a base sagas so here what we'll do is we will import in all call take latest
and put because we know that we need all of these effects.
Now what we're gonna do is we're first going to create our cart sagas route saga and this will essentially
yield the all and then inside of that array will pass our subsequent calls.
We also know that we need the user action types because this will be what we're listening for.
We also need our clear cart action because this is what we're going to fire out of our saga so we're
going to export of our new saga called on sign out success and here we're going to yield.
Take the latest where we're listening for that user actions sign out
and then what we're gonna do is we're going to create this new clear cart on sign out
and in here all we do is we just yield us putting out our clear cart method and we'll pass this into
our take latest and then we'll make sure to call it inside of our cart sagas on sign ups success.
So now what we've done is we've created this listener for sign out success but we've also created this
method that will pretty much do different things depending on when this action fires.
So if we wanted to do other things let's say our cart reduced or got larger or there were more things
we wanted to do with our cart.
Based on this sign that success we're able to put them all inside of the saga.
Right we're able to extrapolate out that logic and functionality into its own saga and now all we gotta
do is add our cart sagas to our route saga
cart sagas and we just gotta make sure to call it here and now if we save to go back to our application
if we add some items to our cart sign in if we sign out now we see that oh we're firing our clear cart.
Of course we didn't update our reducer so let's update our reduce our to listen for our new car action
types not clear cart which returns us back our state except cart items is an empty array.
Now if we sign in again
and we hit our sign out we call our cart.
So that's exactly what we're all hoping to do.
And now you can see the pattern in which we can do different things across our application leveraging
our new sign out success method.
So this is the main idea with sagas is that we're able to just move out all of our functionality and
also put us in the correct mindset of how we should structure our application so that we have different
parts of our code listening for different things but then handling different ways that we interact with
both our redux producers write our components and the big beauty is that now our components are pretty
much free from much of the logic that used to be inside of them.
Now all of that logic is in sagas and it's reusable our components are more presentational which is
actually the ideal pattern when it comes to writing react components.
Now one quick change that we can make is that we can modify our shop sagas to also have a base shop
saga because we are now implementing that pattern everywhere.
It's just the best practice to do so right.
So let's just bring back in all as well and we'll export out a route shop sagas which is equal to our
yield call of our fetch collections start and this is what we'll bring into our route saga
and now hopefully everything stays the same.
We refresh fetch collection start that collection success.
Awesome.
Everything still working now that we have our saga.
Only logic left that we have to convert into sagas inside of our application is in our sign up component.
So what I want you to do is actually do this yourself as an exercise at the end of this video.
I want you to try and move this code into a saga yourself.
Now there's a couple of caveats I'm going to help you with.
The first is that I want you to move this sign up process itself into a saga using the redux file structure
that we've already got.
What I mean by that I just mean I want you to create a sign up start sign up success and sign up failure.
Call but right now what we're doing with our application is that essentially a user is able to create
an account by signing up here but we have no way of actually signing them up or giving them any indication
that they were successful other than restarting actual form like clearing it out what I want you to
do is that if there sign up is successful I want you to actually sign them in as well leveraging the
code that we already have.
So that's an extra challenge.
You don't necessarily have to do it you can just get it to the state where it just gets rid of it and
then we will tackle it in the next video but it won't be a good way for you to flex what you've already
learned and then try some other things with the code base that we already have.
I want you to have the confidence to play around in all of this code that we've written because you
will have to modify a couple of things ever so slightly so definitely give it a try.
And in the next lesson we will explore how to do this ourselves.